Readme.md, before:

# RepoRadar

<p align="center">
  <img src="client/public/Images/repo.gif" alt="RepoRadar Demo" width="800" />
</p>

## Overview

RepoRadar is a high-performance, full-stack web application that provides AI-powered analysis of GitHub repositories. The platform helps users discover, analyze, and compare repositories based on key metrics including originality, completeness, marketability, monetization potential, and usefulness. Built with a modern React frontend and Express.js backend, it leverages Google's Gemini 2.5 Pro AI model to provide comprehensive repository insights.

**🚀 Performance Optimized**: RepoRadar includes comprehensive performance optimization features across database, API, and frontend layers, with intelligent caching, compression, and fallback strategies for enterprise-grade reliability.

## 🎯 Key Features

### Core Analysis Features
- **AI-Powered Repository Analysis**: Comprehensive scoring across 5 key metrics
- **Advanced Search & Filtering**: Multi-criteria search with language, stars, and date filters
- **Batch Analysis**: Process multiple repositories simultaneously with progress tracking
- **Export Functionality**: PDF and CSV export for analysis results
- **Find Similar Repositories**: AI-powered similarity matching

### User Experience Features
- **Interactive Onboarding**: Guided tour for new users
- **Micro-interactions**: Smooth animations and responsive feedback
- **Intelligent User Profiles**: Bookmarks, collections, and personalized recommendations
- **AI Assistant**: Context-aware help with holographic interface
- **Comprehensive Documentation**: Detailed guides and API reference

### Enterprise Features
- **API Access & Developer Tools**: RESTful API with rate limiting
- **Advanced Analytics Dashboard**: Time series analysis and trend predictions
- **Integration Hub**: Connect with GitHub, GitLab, Slack, Discord, Jira, and CI/CD tools
- **AI-Powered Code Review**: Security analysis and quality metrics
- **Subscription Management**: Tiered plans with Stripe integration

### Performance & Reliability
- **Database Optimization**: Connection pooling, query monitoring, and automatic indexing
- **Intelligent Caching**: Multi-layer caching with Redis support and compression
- **Response Compression**: Gzip/Brotli compression with configurable thresholds
- **GitHub API Optimization**: Request batching, rate limiting, and intelligent caching
- **Frontend Performance**: Code splitting, lazy loading, and bundle optimization
- **Fallback Strategies**: Graceful degradation for maximum reliability
- **Performance Monitoring**: Real-time metrics, alerting, and dashboard

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- PostgreSQL database
- GitHub token (optional, for higher rate limits)
- Google Gemini API key

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/your-username/reporadar.git
cd reporadar

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Run database migrations
npm run db:push

# Start development server
npm run dev
```### 
Production Deployment

#### Standard Deployment
```bash
# Linux/macOS
./scripts/deploy.sh --environment production --performance true

# Windows
.\scripts\deploy.ps1 -Environment production -EnablePerformanceOptimizations $true
```

#### Docker Deployment
```bash
# Deploy with performance optimizations
docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.performance.yml up -d

# Scale for high availability
docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.performance.yml up -d --scale reporadar=3
```

## 🔐 Authentication & Security

RepoRadar includes production-grade authentication and security features:

### Authentication Methods

#### Password Authentication
- **Secure Password Hashing**: bcrypt with configurable cost factor (default: 12)
- **Password Strength Validation**: Minimum 8 characters required
- **Account Lockout**: Automatic lockout after 5 failed attempts (15-minute duration)
- **Password Reset**: Secure email-based password reset with time-limited tokens

#### OAuth Social Login (Stack Auth)
- **Google OAuth**: Sign in with Google account
- **GitHub OAuth**: Sign in with GitHub account
- **Account Linking**: Automatically link OAuth providers to existing accounts
- **Profile Sync**: Sync profile information from OAuth providers

### Security Features

#### Rate Limiting
- **Login Attempts**: 5 per 15 minutes per IP address
- **Password Reset**: 3 per hour per email address
- **API Calls**: Tier-based limits (Free: 100/hour, Pro: 1000/hour)
- **Analysis Requests**: Daily limits based on subscription tier

#### Session Security
- **Session Regeneration**: New session ID on login and privilege changes
- **Session Metadata**: Track IP address and user agent
- **Session Timeout**: Configurable timeout with sliding window
- **Suspicious Activity Detection**: Automatic session invalidation

#### HTTPS & Security Headers
- **HTTPS Enforcement**: Automatic redirect in production
- **HSTS Headers**: HTTP Strict Transport Security enabled
- **Security Headers**: X-Content-Type-Options, X-Frame-Options, CSP
- **Secure Cookies**: HttpOnly, Secure, and SameSite flags

### Configuration

#### Required Environment Variables
```bash
# Database
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:password@host:5432/database

# Session Security
SESSION_SECRET=your_secure_random_secret_here
SESSION_ENCRYPTION_KEY=your_64_char_hex_key_here

# Password Security
BCRYPT_ROUNDS=12
```

#### OAuth Setup (Optional)
```bash
# Stack Auth Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_STACK_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
NEXT_PUBLIC_STACK_PUBLISHABLE_CLIENT_KEY=your_client_key
STACK_SECRET_SERVER_KEY=your_secret_key
```

Get your Stack Auth credentials from [Neon Console → Auth](https://console.neon.tech).

#### Email Service (Optional)
```bash
# Resend Configuration
RESEND_API_KEY=your_resend_api_key
EMAIL_FROM=noreply@yourdomain.com
EMAIL_FROM_NAME=Your App Name
PASSWORD_RESET_URL=https://yourdomain.com/reset-password
```

Get your Resend API key from [resend.com/api-keys](https://resend.com/api-keys).

#### Rate Limiting Configuration
```bash
# Storage: memory (single instance), redis (multi-instance), or postgres (fallback)
RATE_LIMIT_STORAGE=memory
RATE_LIMIT_REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379

# Authentication Rate Limits
RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_LOGIN_LIMIT=5
RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_LOGIN_WINDOW=900000      # 15 minutes
RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_RESET_LIMIT=3
RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_RESET_WINDOW=3600000     # 1 hour
```

#### HTTPS Configuration
```bash
# Production Settings
FORCE_HTTPS=true
HSTS_MAX_AGE=31536000                    # 1 year
HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS=true

# Security Headers
SECURITY_HEADERS_ENABLED=true
CSP_ENABLED=true
```

### Setup Guides

For detailed setup instructions, see:
- [OAuth Setup Guide](docs/OAUTH_SETUP.md) - Configure Google and GitHub OAuth
- [Email Service Guide](docs/EMAIL_SERVICE.md) - Configure password reset emails
- [Rate Limiting Guide](docs/RATE_LIMITING.md) - Configure rate limiting
- [Security Best Practices](docs/SECURITY_BEST_PRACTICES.md) - Production security checklist

## ⚙️ Performance Configuration

RepoRadar includes a comprehensive performance configuration system. All settings can be configured through environment variables or the centralized configuration manager.

### Quick Configuration Check
```bash
# Validate current configuration
npm run config:validate

# View configuration summary
npm run config:summary

# Export configuration
npm run config:export
```

### Key Performance Settings

#### Database Performance
```bash
DB_POOL_MIN=2                    # Minimum connections
DB_POOL_MAX=10                   # Maximum connections  
DB_QUERY_MONITORING_ENABLED=true # Enable query monitoring
DB_SLOW_QUERY_THRESHOLD=1000     # Slow query threshold (ms)
DB_AUTO_CREATE_INDEXES=true      # Auto-create missing indexes
```

#### Cache Configuration
```bash
CACHE_ENABLED=true               # Enable caching
CACHE_TYPE=memory                # memory, redis, or hybrid
CACHE_MEMORY_MAX_SIZE=100        # Cache size (MB)
CACHE_COMPRESSION_ENABLED=true   # Compress cache entries
```

#### Compression Settings
```bash
COMPRESSION_ENABLED=true         # Enable response compression
COMPRESSION_ALGORITHMS=gzip,brotli # Supported algorithms
COMPRESSION_LEVEL=6              # Compression level (1-9)
COMPRESSION_THRESHOLD=1024       # Min size to compress (bytes)
```

#### GitHub API Optimization
```bash
GITHUB_OPTIMIZATION_ENABLED=true # Enable API optimizations
GITHUB_BATCH_SIZE=10             # Batch request size
GITHUB_CACHING_ENABLED=true      # Cache API responses
GITHUB_CACHE_TTL=300             # Cache TTL (seconds)
```

#### Frontend Performance
```bash
FRONTEND_CODE_SPLITTING_ENABLED=true  # Enable code splitting
FRONTEND_LAZY_LOADING_ENABLED=true    # Enable lazy loading
FRONTEND_TREE_SHAKING_ENABLED=true    # Enable tree shaking
FRONTEND_SERVICE_WORKER_ENABLED=false # Enable service worker
```

For complete configuration options, see [Performance Configuration Guide](docs/PERFORMANCE_CONFIGURATION.md).

## 📊 System Architecture

### Performance-Optimized Architecture

RepoRadar is built with performance as a core principle, featuring:

#### Frontend Architecture
- **Framework**: React 18 with TypeScript for type safety
- **Routing**: Wouter for lightweight client-side routing
- **State Management**: TanStack Query for server state and caching
- **UI Framework**: Radix UI with shadcn/ui design system
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS with responsive design
- **Build Tool**: Vite with performance optimizations
- **Performance Features**:
  - Code splitting with route and component-based chunks
  - Lazy loading with intersection observer
  - Bundle optimization with tree shaking
  - Service worker caching (optional)
  - Compression and minification

#### Backend Architecture
- **Runtime**: Node.js with Express.js framework
- **Language**: TypeScript with ES modules
- **API Design**: RESTful endpoints with structured error handling
- **Session Management**: PostgreSQL-backed sessions
- **Performance Features**:
  - Connection pooling with health monitoring
  - Query performance monitoring and optimization
  - Automatic index creation and management
  - Multi-layer caching (memory/Redis)
  - Response compression (gzip/brotli)
  - GitHub API optimization with batching
  - Graceful fallback strategies

#### Database Layer
- **Primary Database**: PostgreSQL with Neon serverless
- **ORM**: Drizzle ORM for type-safe operations
- **Performance Features**:
  - Optimized connection pooling
  - Slow query monitoring and logging
  - Automatic index creation
  - Query analysis and optimization
  - Health checks and fallback connections

#### Caching Strategy
- **Multi-Layer Caching**: Memory + Redis support
- **Intelligent Invalidation**: Time, event, and manual strategies
- **Compression**: Automatic compression for large cache entries
- **Fallback**: Direct retrieval when cache is unavailable

### AI Integration
- **AI Provider**: Google Gemini 2.5 Pro for repository analysis
- **Analysis Metrics**: Five-factor scoring system
- **Response Format**: Structured JSON with comprehensive insights
- **Rate Limiting**: Built-in request management

### External Integrations
- **GitHub API**: Repository data with optimization
- **Stripe**: Payment processing for subscriptions
- **Authentication**: Stack Auth (OAuth) with secure password hashing
- **Monitoring**: Performance metrics and alerting

## 🛠️ Development

### Development Workflow
```bash
# Start development server
npm run dev

# Run tests
npm run test

# Run tests with UI
npm run test:ui

# Type checking
npm run check

# Build for production
npm run build
```

### Performance Testing
```bash
# Run performance benchmarks
npm run test -- tests/PerformanceBenchmark.test.ts

# Run load testing
npm run test -- server/performance/__tests__/LoadTesting.integration.test.ts

# Run end-to-end performance tests
npm run test -- tests/EndToEnd.integration.test.ts
```

### Configuration Management
```bash
# Validate configuration
npm run config:validate

# View configuration summary  
npm run config:summary

# Export configuration as JSON
npm run config:export
```

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Performance Configuration Guide](docs/PERFORMANCE_CONFIGURATION.md)** - Comprehensive performance tuning guide
- **[Configuration System](config/README.md)** - Configuration management documentation
- **[Deployment Scripts](scripts/)** - Deployment automation documentation
- **[Docker Setup](docker/)** - Container deployment with performance optimizations

## 🔧 Environment Configuration

### Development
```bash
NODE_ENV=development
DB_POOL_MAX=5
CACHE_MEMORY_MAX_SIZE=50
COMPRESSION_LEVEL=1
METRICS_RETENTION_DAYS=7
```

### Staging
```bash
NODE_ENV=staging
DB_POOL_MAX=15
CACHE_MEMORY_MAX_SIZE=128
COMPRESSION_LEVEL=6
METRICS_RETENTION_DAYS=30
```

### Production
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
DB_POOL_MAX=30
CACHE_MEMORY_MAX_SIZE=512
COMPRESSION_LEVEL=9
METRICS_RETENTION_DAYS=90
```

## 📈 Performance Monitoring

RepoRadar includes comprehensive performance monitoring:

- **Real-time Metrics**: Database, API, and frontend performance
- **Alerting System**: Configurable thresholds with multiple channels
- **Performance Dashboard**: Visual metrics and historical data
- **Health Checks**: Automated system health monitoring
- **Fallback Tracking**: Monitor fallback usage and recovery

Access the performance dashboard at `/api/performance/dashboard` when monitoring is enabled.

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests and performance benchmarks
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🆘 Support

- **Documentation**: Check the [docs](docs/) directory
- **Configuration Issues**: Run `npm run config:validate`
- **Performance Issues**: Check the performance dashboard
- **General Issues**: Create an issue on GitHub

---

**Built with ❤️ and optimized for ⚡ performance**

Commit message:

Add OpenAI fallback and enhance health checks
Introduces OpenAI GPT-5 as a fallback AI provider for repository analysis and assistant features, with configuration via environment variables. Implements comprehensive health check endpoint with database, Redis, memory, and CPU metrics, updates documentation and specs, adds related tests, and improves graceful shutdown and Redis fallback mechanisms for reliability and production readiness.

Readme.md, after:

# RepoRadar

<p align="center">
  <img src="client/public/Images/repo.gif" alt="RepoRadar Demo" width="800" />
</p>

## Overview

RepoRadar is a high-performance, full-stack web application that provides AI-powered analysis of GitHub repositories. The platform helps users discover, analyze, and compare repositories based on key metrics including originality, completeness, marketability, monetization potential, and usefulness. Built with a modern React frontend and Express.js backend, it leverages Google's Gemini 2.5 Pro AI model to provide comprehensive repository insights.

**🚀 Performance Optimized**: RepoRadar includes comprehensive performance optimization features across database, API, and frontend layers, with intelligent caching, compression, and fallback strategies for enterprise-grade reliability.

## 🎯 Key Features

### Core Analysis Features
- **AI-Powered Repository Analysis**: Comprehensive scoring across 5 key metrics
- **Advanced Search & Filtering**: Multi-criteria search with language, stars, and date filters
- **Batch Analysis**: Process multiple repositories simultaneously with progress tracking
- **Export Functionality**: PDF and CSV export for analysis results
- **Find Similar Repositories**: AI-powered similarity matching

### User Experience Features
- **Interactive Onboarding**: Guided tour for new users
- **Micro-interactions**: Smooth animations and responsive feedback
- **Intelligent User Profiles**: Bookmarks, collections, and personalized recommendations
- **AI Assistant**: Context-aware help with holographic interface
- **Comprehensive Documentation**: Detailed guides and API reference

### Enterprise Features
- **API Access & Developer Tools**: RESTful API with rate limiting
- **Advanced Analytics Dashboard**: Time series analysis and trend predictions
- **Integration Hub**: Connect with GitHub, GitLab, Slack, Discord, Jira, and CI/CD tools
- **AI-Powered Code Review**: Security analysis and quality metrics
- **Subscription Management**: Tiered plans with Stripe integration

### Performance & Reliability
- **Database Optimization**: Connection pooling, query monitoring, and automatic indexing
- **Intelligent Caching**: Multi-layer caching with Redis support and compression
- **Response Compression**: Gzip/Brotli compression with configurable thresholds
- **GitHub API Optimization**: Request batching, rate limiting, and intelligent caching
- **Frontend Performance**: Code splitting, lazy loading, and bundle optimization
- **Fallback Strategies**: Graceful degradation for maximum reliability
- **Performance Monitoring**: Real-time metrics, alerting, and dashboard

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- PostgreSQL database
- GitHub token (optional, for higher rate limits)
- Google Gemini API key (required for primary AI)
- OpenAI API key (optional, for AI fallback)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/your-username/reporadar.git
cd reporadar

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Set up environment variables
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your configuration

# Run database migrations
npm run db:push

# Start development server
npm run dev
```### 
Production Deployment

#### Standard Deployment
```bash
# Linux/macOS
./scripts/deploy.sh --environment production --performance true

# Windows
.\scripts\deploy.ps1 -Environment production -EnablePerformanceOptimizations $true
```

#### Docker Deployment
```bash
# Deploy with performance optimizations
docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.performance.yml up -d

# Scale for high availability
docker-compose -f docker/docker-compose.performance.yml up -d --scale reporadar=3
```

## 🔐 Authentication & Security

RepoRadar includes production-grade authentication and security features:

### Authentication Methods

#### Password Authentication
- **Secure Password Hashing**: bcrypt with configurable cost factor (default: 12)
- **Password Strength Validation**: Minimum 8 characters required
- **Account Lockout**: Automatic lockout after 5 failed attempts (15-minute duration)
- **Password Reset**: Secure email-based password reset with time-limited tokens

#### OAuth Social Login (Stack Auth)
- **Google OAuth**: Sign in with Google account
- **GitHub OAuth**: Sign in with GitHub account
- **Account Linking**: Automatically link OAuth providers to existing accounts
- **Profile Sync**: Sync profile information from OAuth providers

### Security Features

#### Rate Limiting
- **Login Attempts**: 5 per 15 minutes per IP address
- **Password Reset**: 3 per hour per email address
- **API Calls**: Tier-based limits (Free: 100/hour, Pro: 1000/hour)
- **Analysis Requests**: Daily limits based on subscription tier

#### Session Security
- **Session Regeneration**: New session ID on login and privilege changes
- **Session Metadata**: Track IP address and user agent
- **Session Timeout**: Configurable timeout with sliding window
- **Suspicious Activity Detection**: Automatic session invalidation

#### HTTPS & Security Headers
- **HTTPS Enforcement**: Automatic redirect in production
- **HSTS Headers**: HTTP Strict Transport Security enabled
- **Security Headers**: X-Content-Type-Options, X-Frame-Options, CSP
- **Secure Cookies**: HttpOnly, Secure, and SameSite flags

### Configuration

#### Required Environment Variables
```bash
# Database
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://user:password@host:5432/database

# Session Security
SESSION_SECRET=your_secure_random_secret_here
SESSION_ENCRYPTION_KEY=your_64_char_hex_key_here

# Password Security
BCRYPT_ROUNDS=12
```

#### OAuth Setup (Optional)
```bash
# Stack Auth Configuration
NEXT_PUBLIC_STACK_PROJECT_ID=your_project_id
NEXT_PUBLIC_STACK_PUBLISHABLE_CLIENT_KEY=your_client_key
STACK_SECRET_SERVER_KEY=your_secret_key
```

Get your Stack Auth credentials from [Neon Console → Auth](https://console.neon.tech).

#### Email Service (Optional)
```bash
# Resend Configuration
RESEND_API_KEY=your_resend_api_key
EMAIL_FROM=noreply@yourdomain.com
EMAIL_FROM_NAME=Your App Name
PASSWORD_RESET_URL=https://yourdomain.com/reset-password
```

Get your Resend API key from [resend.com/api-keys](https://resend.com/api-keys).

#### Rate Limiting Configuration
```bash
# Storage: memory (single instance), redis (multi-instance), or postgres (fallback)
RATE_LIMIT_STORAGE=memory
RATE_LIMIT_REDIS_URL=redis://localhost:6379

# Authentication Rate Limits
RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_LOGIN_LIMIT=5
RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_LOGIN_WINDOW=900000      # 15 minutes
RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_RESET_LIMIT=3
RATE_LIMIT_AUTH_RESET_WINDOW=3600000     # 1 hour
```

#### HTTPS Configuration
```bash
# Production Settings
FORCE_HTTPS=true
HSTS_MAX_AGE=31536000                    # 1 year
HSTS_INCLUDE_SUBDOMAINS=true

# Security Headers
SECURITY_HEADERS_ENABLED=true
CSP_ENABLED=true
```

### Setup Guides

For detailed setup instructions, see:
- [OAuth Setup Guide](docs/OAUTH_SETUP.md) - Configure Google and GitHub OAuth
- [Email Service Guide](docs/EMAIL_SERVICE.md) - Configure password reset emails
- [Rate Limiting Guide](docs/RATE_LIMITING.md) - Configure rate limiting
- [Security Best Practices](docs/SECURITY_BEST_PRACTICES.md) - Production security checklist

## ⚙️ Performance Configuration

RepoRadar includes a comprehensive performance configuration system. All settings can be configured through environment variables or the centralized configuration manager.

### Quick Configuration Check
```bash
# Validate current configuration
npm run config:validate

# View configuration summary
npm run config:summary

# Export configuration
npm run config:export
```

### Key Performance Settings

#### Database Performance
```bash
DB_POOL_MIN=2                    # Minimum connections
DB_POOL_MAX=10                   # Maximum connections  
DB_QUERY_MONITORING_ENABLED=true # Enable query monitoring
DB_SLOW_QUERY_THRESHOLD=1000     # Slow query threshold (ms)
DB_AUTO_CREATE_INDEXES=true      # Auto-create missing indexes
```

#### Cache Configuration
```bash
CACHE_ENABLED=true               # Enable caching
CACHE_TYPE=memory                # memory, redis, or hybrid
CACHE_MEMORY_MAX_SIZE=100        # Cache size (MB)
CACHE_COMPRESSION_ENABLED=true   # Compress cache entries
```

#### Compression Settings
```bash
COMPRESSION_ENABLED=true         # Enable response compression
COMPRESSION_ALGORITHMS=gzip,brotli # Supported algorithms
COMPRESSION_LEVEL=6              # Compression level (1-9)
COMPRESSION_THRESHOLD=1024       # Min size to compress (bytes)
```

#### GitHub API Optimization
```bash
GITHUB_OPTIMIZATION_ENABLED=true # Enable API optimizations
GITHUB_BATCH_SIZE=10             # Batch request size
GITHUB_CACHING_ENABLED=true      # Cache API responses
GITHUB_CACHE_TTL=300             # Cache TTL (seconds)
```

#### Frontend Performance
```bash
FRONTEND_CODE_SPLITTING_ENABLED=true  # Enable code splitting
FRONTEND_LAZY_LOADING_ENABLED=true    # Enable lazy loading
FRONTEND_TREE_SHAKING_ENABLED=true    # Enable tree shaking
FRONTEND_SERVICE_WORKER_ENABLED=false # Enable service worker
```

For complete configuration options, see [Performance Configuration Guide](docs/PERFORMANCE_CONFIGURATION.md).

## 📊 System Architecture

### Performance-Optimized Architecture

RepoRadar is built with performance as a core principle, featuring:

#### Frontend Architecture
- **Framework**: React 18 with TypeScript for type safety
- **Routing**: Wouter for lightweight client-side routing
- **State Management**: TanStack Query for server state and caching
- **UI Framework**: Radix UI with shadcn/ui design system
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS with responsive design
- **Build Tool**: Vite with performance optimizations
- **Performance Features**:
  - Code splitting with route and component-based chunks
  - Lazy loading with intersection observer
  - Bundle optimization with tree shaking
  - Service worker caching (optional)
  - Compression and minification

#### Backend Architecture
- **Runtime**: Node.js with Express.js framework
- **Language**: TypeScript with ES modules
- **API Design**: RESTful endpoints with structured error handling
- **Session Management**: PostgreSQL-backed sessions
- **Performance Features**:
  - Connection pooling with health monitoring
  - Query performance monitoring and optimization
  - Automatic index creation and management
  - Multi-layer caching (memory/Redis)
  - Response compression (gzip/brotli)
  - GitHub API optimization with batching
  - Graceful fallback strategies

#### Database Layer
- **Primary Database**: PostgreSQL with Neon serverless
- **ORM**: Drizzle ORM for type-safe operations
- **Performance Features**:
  - Optimized connection pooling
  - Slow query monitoring and logging
  - Automatic index creation
  - Query analysis and optimization
  - Health checks and fallback connections

#### Caching Strategy
- **Multi-Layer Caching**: Memory + Redis support
- **Intelligent Invalidation**: Time, event, and manual strategies
- **Compression**: Automatic compression for large cache entries
- **Fallback**: Direct retrieval when cache is unavailable

### AI Integration
- **AI Provider**: Google Gemini 2.5 Pro for repository analysis
- **Analysis Metrics**: Five-factor scoring system
- **Response Format**: Structured JSON with comprehensive insights
- **Rate Limiting**: Built-in request management

### External Integrations
- **GitHub API**: Repository data with optimization
- **Stripe**: Payment processing for subscriptions
- **Authentication**: Stack Auth (OAuth) with secure password hashing
- **Monitoring**: Performance metrics and alerting

## 🛠️ Development

### Development Workflow
```bash
# Start development server
npm run dev

# Run tests
npm run test

# Run tests with UI
npm run test:ui

# Type checking
npm run check

# Build for production
npm run build
```

### Performance Testing
```bash
# Run performance benchmarks
npm run test -- tests/PerformanceBenchmark.test.ts

# Run load testing
npm run test -- server/performance/__tests__/LoadTesting.integration.test.ts

# Run end-to-end performance tests
npm run test -- tests/EndToEnd.integration.test.ts
```

### Configuration Management
```bash
# Validate configuration
npm run config:validate

# View configuration summary  
npm run config:summary

# Export configuration as JSON
npm run config:export
```

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Performance Configuration Guide](docs/PERFORMANCE_CONFIGURATION.md)** - Comprehensive performance tuning guide
- **[Configuration System](config/README.md)** - Configuration management documentation
- **[Deployment Scripts](scripts/)** - Deployment automation documentation
- **[Docker Setup](docker/)** - Container deployment with performance optimizations

## 🔧 Environment Configuration

### Development
```bash
NODE_ENV=development
DB_POOL_MAX=5
CACHE_MEMORY_MAX_SIZE=50
COMPRESSION_LEVEL=1
METRICS_RETENTION_DAYS=7
```

### Staging
```bash
NODE_ENV=staging
DB_POOL_MAX=15
CACHE_MEMORY_MAX_SIZE=128
COMPRESSION_LEVEL=6
METRICS_RETENTION_DAYS=30
```

### Production
```bash
NODE_ENV=production
DB_POOL_MAX=30
CACHE_MEMORY_MAX_SIZE=512
COMPRESSION_LEVEL=9
METRICS_RETENTION_DAYS=90
```

## 📈 Performance Monitoring

RepoRadar includes comprehensive performance monitoring:

- **Real-time Metrics**: Database, API, and frontend performance
- **Alerting System**: Configurable thresholds with multiple channels
- **Performance Dashboard**: Visual metrics and historical data
- **Health Checks**: Automated system health monitoring
- **Fallback Tracking**: Monitor fallback usage and recovery

Access the performance dashboard at `/api/performance/dashboard` when monitoring is enabled.

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Run tests and performance benchmarks
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🆘 Support

- **Documentation**: Check the [docs](docs/) directory
- **Configuration Issues**: Run `npm run config:validate`
- **Performance Issues**: Check the performance dashboard
- **General Issues**: Create an issue on GitHub

---

**Built with ❤️ and optimized for ⚡ performance**
